BOOK 1.—oDE 1. . 9

excellence in forensic eloquence or jurisprudence as well as
of song :—
“ Seu linguam causis acuis seu civica jura,

Respondere paras seu condis amabile carmen,
Prima feres hederae victricis praemia.''

And if the ivy crown may be won by pleading causes or
giving advice to clients‚ it can be no inappropriate reward
to the brows of a statesman so accomplished as Maecenas.
Thus, I think, there is much to be said in favour of the
construction—“Thee‚ Maecenas, the ivy wreath—-prize of
learned or skilled brows—associates with the higher gods
(z'.e., with those whowatch over states and empires) 3 me,
the love of ¹rural leisure and the dreams that it begets set
apart from the crowd.’' On the other side, Ritter has the
best vindication I have seen of the alleged contradiction or
bathos in the Poet's boasted association, first, with the higher
gods, and next, with the inferior deities. According to him,
Horace is speaking of two kinds of lyric poetry—the lofty
and the sportive. The first, symbolised by the ivy, associ-
ates him with gods in heaven3 the second, connecting him
with the pastimes of nymphs and satyrs, separates him from
the popular pursuits of men. For the first, he trusts to the
aid of Polyhymnia, presiding over the Lesbian lyre (of
Alcaeus) 3 for the second, to the livelier inspiration of
Euterpe.

